Moving on along to something a little bit more exciting.
We've been talking about things like translating scaling and rotating moving things around effecting
change on elements but we haven't been able to animate those changes yet.
We've been able to rotate something but it happens instantaneously.
So it's not quite animated that changes now though because in this section we're talking about CSSA
transitions so transitions allow us to control the animation speed the timing the acceleration and a
couple other properties when changing as properties on given elements.
So here's a little bit of an example we could double the size of a div which we already know how to
do.
But now we can say make sure that it goes over three seconds so don't don't double instantaneously but
take three seconds.
But that's not all that we can control.
We'll see there's actually four transition properties that we can control.
So the first one that we'll talk about is the duration which we already discussed briefly.
That's how long that change should take.
So if we're changing something from purple to yellow How many seconds or milliseconds do we want it
to take.
Or for doubling something in size three we want that to happen over half a second or 20 seconds.
Then there's transition property now transition property is actually calling out which individuals has
properties we want to transition.
So you might have five different things that are changed.
When you hover over let's say a div you change the background color you scale it you rotate it and you
also change the opacity.
Yes that's all I'm going for.
But let's say that you only want to animate the changing of the rotation and the scale.
You don't want to animate the color you want that to happen immediately.
Transition property allows you to call out which of those properties you care about.
So we'll dive into this in the next video.
The next one is transition timing function.
This one is essentially the acceleration of the transition.
So given let's say 10 seconds for a duration we're animating the background color over 10 seconds.
We could animate it in a bunch of different ways.
We wanted to happen linearly over those 10 seconds or do you want it to change 90 percent of the way
very quickly and then the last 10 percent take a long time.
Or the opposite of that.
And we can actually custom define our own timing curves.
So that's coming up.
And then we have transition delay and transition delay is just once a change is set to occur.
How long do you wait until the transition starts.
So we've been working with huffers let's say we hover over something and it's supposed to change to
blue from yellow without transition delay.
It just would start immediately.
The transition.
But we can tell it to wait two seconds or half a second.
And usually it's kind of annoying if something doesn't happen right away when you hover.
But sometimes you do need to take advantage of that for certain animations.
So those are the four key properties.
And in the next video we're actually going to deep dive into them we'll start typing them and see how
they work.
But until then I just want to go over to a demo code pen that I have.
I have three different divs very similar at least at first but they have a couple of different transitions
applied.
So all of them change color when we hover.
This one the first one changes immediately to red as soon as I hover so there's no transition applied.
This is what we know how to do.
Currently.
This one however does have a transition.
It takes one second to change to read.
So you can see that it animates that.
And then we've had this one that's labeled craziness and I'll explain a bit about what happens before
I triggered it because it seems kind of weird.
So there are a couple of things that are changing on this one.
First I'm changing the border radius which turns it into a circle.
So it looks like a circle.
The color is changing the background color.
And there's a rotate happening at the same time as well.
Has a scale but you'll see they don't all have transitions and on top of that there's a delay that happens
so I'm going to hover right now and notice that it changes to a circle immediately.
But then when we reverse it it changes to a circle right away.
But the other elements the other changes don't occur for another second.
So there is a pause So that's the delay.
So here I go again changes to a circle.
Then it starts rotating and changes color and shrinks all three of those have a transition applied.
So what I'm trying to show you here is that you can have more than one property transition.
In this case we're changing the color and that's transitioning nicely.
We're changing the size using transform scale that we just saw.
And then we're also rotating it using transform rotate and then the fourth thing that is not being transitioned
is the border radius.
Notice how it goes immediately back to square when I release or hover away mouse off I guess it's the
correct term.
And then when I hover over it it immediately turns to a circle there's no smooth transition.
It doesn't take any time at all unlike the other properties.
OK.
So not the best experience obviously to have this on your site but it kind of combines everything that
we're going to see how to do in this section.
And before we actually dive in the code and the next video I just want to have a quick pep talk.
We will be building something more exciting more interesting than rotating circles and squares.
In this case we'll be building up to a more complex animation a couple of them later on in this section.
But we've got to start at the basics.
OK.
So let's get going.